Decca has mastered the art of Shilling The Rubes with their newest Bowie announcement.

David Bowie's self-titled 1967 debut album is due to be reissued by Decca on the 26th of July (read the press release here) in both 2CD and coloured 2LP formats. Unlike the previous "Deluxe Edition", instead of containing a mono and stereo version of the album, this 2LP release will contain bonus tracks (see the end of the article for a complete list), like the single The Laughing Gnome and a personal favourite of In The Heat Of The Morning. This reissue may be the best version of this album to pick up on vinyl.

If that was all, I'd be praising this release, but it is not. In fact, this release is incredibly predatory. Not only are there three different colour variations (Decca-exclusive cream / green swirl, green, and indie-exclusive cloudy green), but each version contains exactly one track not featured on the others (the CD edition contains all three). On the cream, there is the Love You Till Tuesday version of Space Oddity. On the standard green, there is a remix of Sell Me A Coat. On the cloudy green, there is Vocal Take One of The Laughing Gnome, released last year on the RSD-exclusive Laughing With Liza. The decision to have exclusive tracks is just part of a larger trend of Decca-Bowie releases, milking their limited Bowie catalogue and drip-feeding fans with unreleased tracks (where is Bunny Thing?). Fans deserve better than this predatory attempt to extort fans into buying three £35 copies of the same mediocre album. At least with the McCartney III coloured release, you got all of the music in one copy.

Despite hating the idea of this release, the collector in me forced me to order the Decca-exclusive version (although the indie-version has a better bonus). For those who want to purchase the album for themselves, here are the links:

-Cream / Green
-Green
-Cloudy Green
-2CD

Track List (Second Disc):

Rubber Band (Single Version)
The London Boys (Mono)
The Laughing Gnome (2010 Stereo Mix)
The Gospel According To Tony Day (Single Version - Stereo Mix)
Love You Till Tuesday (Single Version)
Did You Ever Have A Dream (Single Version - Stereo Mix)
When I Live My Dream (Single version - Mono)
Let Me Sleep Beside You (Stereo Mix)
Karma Man (Stereo Mix)
In The Heat Of The Morning (Stereo Mix)
London Bye Ta-Ta
When I’m Five (Love You Till Tuesday Soundtrack)
Ching-A-Ling (Full length Stereo Mix)
The Laughing Gnome (Vocal Take 1 / Mix 1)
Sell Me A Coat (Remix - Mono)
Space Oddity (Love You Till Tuesday Full Length Version)

https://www.universalmusic.ca/press-releases/david-bowie-deluxe-edition-26th-july-with-a-rare-version-of-space-oddity-on-vinyl-for-the-very-first-time/
https://shop.decca.com/search?q=David+Bowie